
.. _patching:

Patch a project
===============

*Dfetch* has a first-class patch workflow.  When you need to fix a bug or
apply a customisation to a vendored dependency, you can track that change as a
patch file that is automatically re-applied on every :ref:`dfetch update
<update>`.  When the fix is ready to share, :ref:`format-patch` converts it
into a contributor-ready unified diff that upstream maintainers can apply
directly.

.. note::

   New to patching with *Dfetch*?  Start with :ref:`first-patch` in the
   getting-started tutorial, which walks through creating and applying
   your first patch step by step.

The full lifecycle looks like this:

1. :ref:`patching-create` — capture local edits as a ``.patch`` file with ``dfetch diff``
2. :ref:`patching-wire` — reference the patch from the manifest so it is applied on every fetch
3. :ref:`patching-update` — refresh the patch as your edits evolve with ``dfetch update-patch``
4. :ref:`patching-upstream` — reformat the patch for upstream use with ``dfetch format-patch``

.. _patching-create:

Capturing local changes
-----------------------

After fetching a project with :ref:`dfetch update <update>`, make your edits
directly in the vendored source tree.  Once you are happy with the changes,
run:

.. code-block:: console

    $ dfetch diff some-project

*Dfetch* compares the working tree against the revision recorded in the
metadata file and writes a patch file named ``some-project.patch`` (or
``some-project-N.patch`` if multiple patches already exist).

.. asciinema:: ../asciicasts/diff.cast

**Controlling which revisions are compared**

By default, *Dfetch* uses the revision stored in the project's metadata as the
base.  You can override this:

- Single base revision: ``dfetch diff some-project --revs 23864ef2``
- Explicit range: ``dfetch diff some-project --revs 23864ef2:4a9cb18``

See :ref:`diff` in the command reference for all options.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Git

      .. scenario-include:: ../features/diff-in-git.feature

   .. tab:: SVN

      .. scenario-include:: ../features/diff-in-svn.feature

.. _patching-wire:

Adding the patch to the manifest
---------------------------------

Once you have a patch file, reference it from the project entry in
``dfetch.yaml`` using the :ref:`patch` attribute:

.. code-block:: yaml

    manifest:
      version: '0.0'
      projects:
        - name: some-project
          url: https://github.com/example/some-project
          tag: v1.2.3
          patch: some-project.patch

From this point on, every ``dfetch update`` will fetch the upstream source and
re-apply the patch on top.

**Multiple patches**

You can split your changes into separate, focused patch files and list them in
order:

.. code-block:: yaml

          patch:
            - 001-fix-null-dereference.patch
            - 002-add-missing-header.patch

Patches are applied in the order listed.  A good convention is to prefix each
file name with a zero-padded number so they sort correctly and their purpose is
clear at a glance.

See :ref:`patch` in the manifest reference for the full attribute syntax.

.. _patching-update:

Refreshing a patch
------------------

As your local edits evolve — or when the upstream version changes — the
existing patch file may no longer apply cleanly.  Instead of manually
regenerating it, run:

.. code-block:: console

    $ dfetch update-patch some-project

This regenerates the last patch for ``some-project`` from the current working
tree, keeping the upstream revision unchanged.  It is safe to run repeatedly
as you iterate on the fix.

When the upstream version changes, *Dfetch* applies patches with fuzzy
matching, so a patch can survive minor context changes without needing an
immediate refresh.  If the patch no longer applies at all, ``dfetch update``
will report the failure and you can refresh with ``dfetch update-patch``.

.. asciinema:: ../asciicasts/update-patch.cast

See :ref:`update-patch` in the command reference for all options.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Git

      .. scenario-include:: ../features/update-patch-in-git.feature

   .. tab:: SVN

      .. scenario-include:: ../features/update-patch-in-svn.feature

.. _patching-upstream:

Contributing the patch upstream
---------------------------------

Patches generated by ``dfetch diff`` are relative to the project's vendored
directory inside your repository.  Most upstream projects expect patches to be
relative to their own root, which is a different path.  To reformat all patches
for a project:

.. code-block:: console

    $ dfetch format-patch some-project

This writes a ``formatted-some-project.patch`` file (or one file per patch if
there are several) that is ready to share with the upstream project.

Before sending it, do a dry-run check to confirm it applies cleanly to a local
clone of the upstream repository:

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Git

        .. code-block:: console

            $ git apply --check formatted-some-project.patch

        .. scenario-include:: ../features/format-patch-in-git.feature

        Once confirmed, hand the file off to the upstream project.  Upstream
        maintainers can apply it with `git am
        <https://git-scm.com/docs/git-am>`_:

        .. code-block:: console

            $ git am formatted-some-project.patch

        Each patch file results in a separate commit.

    .. tab:: SVN

        .. code-block:: console

            $ svn patch formatted-some-project.patch

        .. scenario-include:: ../features/format-patch-in-svn.feature

.. asciinema:: ../asciicasts/format-patch.cast

See :ref:`format-patch` in the command reference for all options.
