
.. _patching:

Working with patches
====================

*Dfetch* has a first-class patch workflow.  When you need to fix a bug or
apply a customisation to a vendored dependency, you can track that change as a
patch file that is automatically re-applied on every :ref:`dfetch update
<update>`.  When the fix is ready to share, :ref:`format-patch` converts it
into a contributor-ready unified diff that upstream maintainers can apply
directly.

The full lifecycle looks like this:

1. :ref:`patching-create` — capture local edits as a ``.patch`` file with ``dfetch diff``
2. :ref:`patching-wire` — reference the patch from the manifest so it is applied on every fetch
3. :ref:`patching-update` — refresh the patch as your edits evolve with ``dfetch update-patch``
4. :ref:`patching-upstream` — reformat the patch for upstream use with ``dfetch format-patch``

----

.. _patching-create:

Capturing local changes
-----------------------

After fetching a project with :ref:`dfetch update <update>`, make your edits
directly in the vendored source tree.  Once you are happy with the changes,
run:

.. code-block:: sh

    dfetch diff some-project

*Dfetch* compares the working tree against the revision recorded in the
metadata file and writes a patch file named ``some-project.patch`` (or
``some-project-N.patch`` if multiple patches already exist).

.. asciinema:: asciicasts/diff.cast

**Controlling which revisions are compared**

By default, *Dfetch* uses the revision stored in the project's metadata as the
base.  You can override this:

- Single base revision: ``dfetch diff some-project --revs 23864ef2``
- Explicit range: ``dfetch diff some-project --revs 23864ef2:4a9cb18``

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Git

      .. scenario-include:: ../features/diff-in-git.feature

   .. tab:: SVN

      .. scenario-include:: ../features/diff-in-svn.feature

----

.. _patching-wire:

Adding the patch to the manifest
---------------------------------

Once you have a patch file, reference it from the project entry in
``dfetch.yaml`` using the :ref:`patch` attribute:

.. code-block:: yaml

    manifest:
      version: '0.0'
      projects:
        - name: some-project
          url: https://github.com/example/some-project
          tag: v1.2.3
          patch: some-project.patch

From this point on, every ``dfetch update`` will fetch the upstream source and
re-apply the patch on top.  See :ref:`patch` in the manifest reference for the
full attribute syntax.

----

.. _patching-update:

Refreshing a patch
------------------

As your local edits evolve — or when the upstream version changes — the
existing patch file may no longer apply cleanly.  Instead of manually
regenerating it, run:

.. code-block:: sh

    dfetch update-patch some-project

This regenerates the last patch for ``some-project`` from the current working
tree, keeping the upstream revision unchanged.  It is safe to run repeatedly
as you iterate on the fix.

.. asciinema:: asciicasts/update-patch.cast

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Git

      .. scenario-include:: ../features/update-patch-in-git.feature

   .. tab:: SVN

      .. scenario-include:: ../features/update-patch-in-svn.feature

----

.. _patching-upstream:

Contributing the patch upstream
---------------------------------

Patches generated by ``dfetch diff`` are relative to the project's vendored
directory inside your repository.  Most upstream projects expect patches to be
relative to their own root, which is a different path.  To reformat all patches
for a project:

.. code-block:: sh

    dfetch format-patch some-project

This writes a ``formatted-some-project.patch`` file (or one file per patch if
there are several) that is ready to attach to a pull request or send by email.


You can verify the formatted patch applies cleanly before submitting:

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Git

        .. code-block:: sh

            git apply --check formatted-some-project.patch

    .. tab:: SVN

        .. code-block:: sh

            svn patch formatted-some-project.patch

.. asciinema:: asciicasts/format-patch.cast

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Git

        .. scenario-include:: ../features/format-patch-in-git.feature

    .. tab:: SVN

        .. scenario-include:: ../features/format-patch-in-svn.feature
